first commit -- all article rmds (#1)
tidymodels/cloudstart: 04_tune_model_paramaters.Rmd

---
title: "Tune model parameters"
output: 
  html_document:
    toc: true
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE)
options(tibble.print_min = 5)
```

`r shiny::icon('map-signs')` Get started with building a model in this R Markdown document that accompanies [Tune model parameters](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/tuning/) tidymodels start article.

`r shiny::icon('map')` If you ever get lost, you can click on the header of the knitted document to see the accompanying section in the online article.

`r shiny::icon('gear')` Take advantage of the RStudio IDE and use "Run All Chunks Above" or "Run Current Chunk" buttons to easily execute code chunks.

## [Introduction](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/tuning/#intro)

Load necessary packages:

```{r}
library(tidymodels)  # for the tune package, along with the rest of tidymodels

# Helper packages
library(modeldata)   # for the cells data
library(vip)         # for variable importance plots
```

## [The cell image data, revisited](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/tuning/#data)

> Do you remember the `cells` dataset from the previous article [Evaluate your model with resampling](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/resampling)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the `cells` dataset used also in the previous article [Evaluate your model with resampling](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/resampling).
```
Mix up other phrases for "do you remember" to not use so often

Author: changed to 
```
Let's revisit the `cells` dataset, which we also used in the previous article [Evaluate your model with resampling](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/resampling). 
```

Import the same `cells` dataset:

```{r}
data(cells, package = "modeldata")
cells
```

## [Predicting image segmentation, but better](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/tuning/#why-tune)

We'll try to predict well-segmented (`WS`) or poorly segmented (`PS`) cells again. (See previous article [Evaluate your model with resampling](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/resampling)). 

> But this time we'll use a different model and put a bit more effort into improving our model performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This time we'll use a different model and put a bit more effort into improving our model performance.
```

Again we start by splitting the data:

```{r}
set.seed(123)
cell_split <- initial_split(cells %>% select(-case), 
                            strata = class)
cell_train <- training(cell_split)
cell_test  <- testing(cell_split)
```

## [Tuning hyperparameters](https://www.tidymodels.org/start/tuning/#tuning)

> Let's start by building our model spacification with `decision_tree()` model type, while setting the engine to `rpart` and mode to `classification`. See `?decision_tree()` for possible engines and further details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start by building our model specification with the `decision_tree()` model type, while setting the engine to `rpart` and mode to `classification`. See `?decision_tree()` for possible engines and further details.
```

```{r}
final_wf <- 
  tree_wf %>% 
  finalize_workflow(best_tree)

final_wf
```

### Exploring results

Let's fit this final model to the training data. 
What does the decision tree look like?

```{r final-tree, dependson="final-mod"}
final_tree <- 
  final_wf %>%
  fit(data = cell_train) 

final_tree
```

Extract the final model object from the workflow and use `vip()` from the **vip** package to visualize variable importance.

```{r}
library(vip)

final_tree %>% 
  pull_workflow_fit() %>% 
  vip()
```

See `?vip::vip` for more details.

### The last fit

Finally, it's time to go back and see the performance of our model with the "untouched" test data.

Use `last_fit()` to fit the finalized model on the full training data set and evaluate it on the test data.

```{r}
final_fit <- 
  final_wf %>%
  last_fit(cell_split) 
```

Collect performance metrics and plot ROC curve:

```{r}
final_fit %>%
  collect_metrics()

final_fit %>%
  collect_predictions() %>% 
  roc_curve(class, .pred_PS) %>% 
  autoplot()
```

It looks like we did not overfit during our tuning procedure!

## Your turn!

You can see available parsnip object arguments with:

```{r}
args(decision_tree)
```

> Which shows that the `decision_tree()` function has *another* hyperparameter `min_n` that can also be tuned!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `decision_tree()` function has *another* hyperparameter `min_n` that can also be tuned.
```
